“Martha, Martha”
—she was a hard-working, hospitable woman.
The Bible tells us that “Jesus loved Martha
and her sister [Mary]
and [their brother] Lazarus.”
When Lazarus took ill,
Martha surely did everything
in her power to soothe his discomfort.
She was so concerned
with her brother’s condition
that she and her sister,
Mary, sent a message to Jesus,
as recorded at John 11:3, saying:
“Lord, see!
the one for whom you have affection is sick.”
Martha knew that Lazarus was seriously ill.
She must have felt helpless
as Lazarus sank deeper
into his illness and then died.
What would Martha do?
Would she give in to despair,
and would grief overpower her
and weaken her faith?
As you watch the following video,
try to imagine Martha’s grief
when her brother died.
During those first few days,
everything was a blur.
My sister, Mary, and I
had never felt so empty and lost.
I knew that if our Lord had been here,
our brother would not have died.
But through the tears and the pain,
I had no doubt
that the resurrection was real,
that someday
—someday—
he would live again.
Who could have imagined
it could happen that very day
and right before our eyes?
We wept tears of joy
and thanked
our loving Father in heaven, Jehovah.
Empathy helps us to feel the pain
and the distress that Martha
felt when Lazarus died.
The Bible account tells us that Jesus
traveled to Bethany, where Martha lived,
but he did not arrive before Lazarus died.
In fact, he came four days
after Lazarus had died.
When Jesus met with Martha,
she expressed faith that Jesus
could have healed Lazarus,
and she felt that Jesus
might yet help her brother.
The Scriptures show that she also believed
in the future resurrection.
Martha must have been thinking
about miracles that Jesus had performed
and the people who had been healed by him.
And she had no doubt
that Jesus was the Christ
and that he could perform miracles.
Read with me what the Bible says
about Martha’s faith in the resurrection
and her confidence in Jesus.
It’s found at John 11:21-26.
It reads as follows:
“Martha then said to Jesus:
“‘Lord, if you had been here,
my brother would not have died.’”
She didn’t say this to reproach Jesus;
she merely stated a fact.
And then she goes on.
She says: “‘Yet even now
“‘I know that whatever you ask God for,
“God will give you.’
“Jesus said to her:
“‘Your brother will rise.’
“Martha said to him:
“‘I know he will rise
in the resurrection on the last day.’
“Jesus said to her:
“‘I am the resurrection and the life.
“‘The one who exercises faith in me,
“‘even though he dies, will come to life;
“‘and everyone who is living
and exercises faith in me
“‘will never die at all.
Do you believe this?’”
In verse 27,
Martha makes
one of the most important statements
that would ever pass her lips.
It reads: “She said to him,
“‘Yes, Lord, I have believed
that you are the Christ,
the Son of God,
the one coming into the world.’”
We can only imagine
how much her faith was appreciated by Jesus.
Jesus Christ has the same appreciation for us
as we show our faith in his promises.
In the following dramatization,
observe how a sister’s faith
brings her comfort.
When I lost my son,
I lost part of myself.
I tried to stay busy,
but everything felt empty.
In my darkest times,
Jehovah’s words brought me comfort.
Not a day goes by
that I don’t think about Brandon
—not just memories of how it was
but even more how wonderful it’ll be
to see him soon
in God’s new world.
We deeply sympathize
with the sister in the video
over the loss of her son
and with any in the congregation
who have suffered the loss of a loved one.
Did you take note
of how the sister imitated Martha’s faith
by putting her complete trust in Jehovah God
and going to him in prayer?
Like Martha,
we can build our faith in the resurrection
by carefully considering
all that God’s Word says about it.
Think of all the evidence there is
that Jesus was resurrected.
The Scriptures show clearly
that after his death and resurrection,
Jesus “showed himself alive”
to his disciples.
He also appeared to Saul of Tarsus,
who became the apostle Paul.
In his letter to the Corinthians,
Paul points out that “more than 500 brothers”
saw the resurrected Jesus.
And to show that it was not just hearsay,
Paul tells us that most
of those eyewitnesses were still alive
when he wrote to the Corinthians.
Yes, they were living witnesses
who could verify the fact
that Jesus was resurrected from the dead.
And think about the inspired
assurance that we have
at Revelation 21:3, 4
—that the time is coming
when “death will be no more.”
When you think about it,
who is it that declares
that “death will be no more”
at Revelation 21:3, 4?
None other than the resurrected Jesus Christ.
We do well to imitate Martha
by maintaining strong faith
when we face the loss of a loved one.
No, it’s not easy; it’s painful.
But we can do it,
knowing full well
that this life is not all there is.
All true Christians
must have faith in the resurrection
—faith that the dead will live again
and that death
will be done away with in God’s new world.
Jehovah and his Son
rewarded the faith of Martha,
Mary, and Lazarus.
We will be rewarded too
if we build strong faith like that of Martha.
Brother Gerrit Lösch,
a member of the Governing Body,
will now present
the final talk of this symposium,
“Imitate Women of Strong Faith!
—Modern-Day Examples.”